# Smart-Iron

## Description
People in the modern society tend to lead busy lives and due to that reason there may be instances where they may neglect minor day to day tasks. With the development of the science and technology they tend to use many equipment that will simplify those tasks. However those equipment may also be harmful at times. When considering irons, forgetting to switch off the iron is one of the major mistakes that can lead to many dangerous accidents. Also there is no proper mechanism to identify the power consumption, usage and current leakages of the iron. In an effort to mitigate those defects Smart Iron Unit was introduced, which has been developed with the ability to switch off the iron automatically if there is no movement detected for a assigned period of time. The developed system has the ability to detect current leakages and switch off the iron if there is any current leakage present. It also has the ability to measure power consumption of the iron and will notify the user about the wastage of the power. The technologies that were used during the implementation are PIC16F877A microcontroller, GSM module, real time clocks, smoke sensors, motion sensors, current sensors and fire sensors. Results of the system indicated the power consumption and the current leakage accurately. It also proved the system has the ability to switch off the iron automatically when no motion is detected. The results appears to be accurate and it is possible to commercialize this system in order to prevent future accidents caused by irons.

## Technologies
PIC16F877A, GSM, Motion Sensor, Fire Sensor, Current Sensor
